In this video, I will introduce you to processing text that you have and in particular extracting words
from sentences.
So let me start with a sentence.
So let's say here is a sentence.
And this is going to be words in a sentence are separated by spaces.
Okay.
Very nice.
So now if I were to just print out the sentence we get just one long string like this.
I can calculate the length and there's 44 characters.
Now here's the thing.
When you read this text, you know that these are separate words.
So you look at this text and you see one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight words.
But Python does not see eight words.
Python just sees 44 characters put together.
So we need a way to break up this sentence into the individual words.
So how do we do that?
Okay.
So to do that we can apply a method on sentence.
And it's called split.
So I am going to split according to spaces.
The output of this method.
Remember a method is like a function acting on a single variable is a list.
You can see the square brackets.
So this is a list, and all of the elements in the list correspond to all of the words in the sentence.
And now there's no spaces because the spaces were dropped because that's what is used to split.
So that's an example for a space we can also split by ease.
So words in a are you know here we do have a space in here.
And here's another space okay.
So now this is splitting up according to spaces mostly you will just be splitting by spaces.
Sometimes you know if you're processing a CSV file a comma separated values file, you might separate
according to commas.
In this case, there are no commas here, so Python recognizes the entire text as just one element in
this list.
Okay, let me go back to spaces here.
So now I'm going to write words equals.
And basically I'm just putting this into a variable.
And with that I can use a for loop.
And what I want to do with this for loop is print out each word and count the number of letters in that
word.
So for w in words.
And now this is the iterator variable.
And this is the variable that I'm using in the for loop to iterate over all the elements in this list.
Okay.
So I will write with an f string.
There are something something letters.
Actually I'll write this as characters in the word.
Like this.
Okay, great.
So now I need to fill in these.
So how many characters are in each word.
Well we can do this with the Len function.
And then here I just want to print out the entire word.
Okay.
And word is not defined.
Oh yeah.
Sorry.
It's a w not word.
Okay great.
There are five characters in the word.
Words in a sentence are separated by spaces.
Very nice.
There is another library that I will introduce you to here and that is called string.
So import string.
This is a fairly small library.
It's not like numpy or matplotlib or PyTorch.
These are huge libraries.
String is a rather small library, and there's not so much that we will need to do with it, but it
is quite useful.
So let's write string.
Again this is going to tell us a.
It's going to give us a list of all of the methods and attributes that are contained inside this library
string.
So you can see there's really not that many.
And let's start exploring some of these.
So we have string dot Ascii lowercase Okay.
And this is just a string.
And each element of the string is all the letters of the alphabet in lowercase.
I bet you have no idea what uppercase is going to be.
Just kidding.
Okay.
Of course, you know, it's all the letters of the alphabet, but now they are uppercase.
Let's see, what else do we have?
Digits.
That is pretty useful.
Zero through nine.
These are the kinds of handy tools that you can use for identifying information in strings.
So for example let's say I have a string and it is the string four.
And now I can say s in str digits.
And the answer here is true because this string four is in this set over here.
And now maybe I can do the letter E.
And now the answer is false because e is not in the digits but it is in the Ascii lowercase.
So now the answer will be true.
And here's something interesting I can do e.
So uppercase e.
And now the answer is false.
But if we don't care about case, then you can use s dot lower.
And that gives us true.
And then there's also a string dot Ascii like this.
Uh wait.
It's called Ascii letters sorry Ascii letters.
And that is all the lowercase and all the uppercase letters.
We also have string dot punctuation.
And that gives us a list of all the punctuation marks.
That's also pretty useful for text processing.
And let's see we also have string dot whitespace.
And that gives you all of the special characters that are interpreted as whitespace.
So this is just a regular space.
Slash T is for tab slash n is for newline.
Slash r is for carriage return.
And I have to admit I do not know what these two stand for, but obviously there are some kind of whitespace
indicators I'm sure you could figure out with a quick Google search.